

Video: AWS IAM User Creation & AWS CLI Configuration
(DevOps Tutorial #62 – AWS IAM & CLI setup)




📝 Notes: AWS IAM User & AWS CLI Configuration
1) Introduction
The video explains how to create an IAM user in AWS and configure the AWS CLI for that user.
It focuses on security and access control rather than using the root account.





2) Why IAM Is Important
IAM (Identity and Access Management) lets you manage who can access AWS and what they can do.
Instead of giving everyone root access (which is unsafe), you create IAM users and assign specific permissions.
This is especially useful in team projects where developers need controlled access.






3) Creating an IAM User
✔ Go to IAM Dashboard in AWS.
✔ Click to create a new IAM user.
✔ You can use a mix of letters, numbers, and special characters in the username.
✔ Choose whether to auto-generate a password or set a custom password.
✔ If auto-generated, the user will be required to change the password at first login.






4) Assigning Permissions
After creating the user, you need to attach permissions policies.
For broad control, you can give Administrator Access.
Permissions determine what AWS services and actions the user can run.
Always keep credentials private and secure.






5) Generating Access Keys
To use the AWS CLI with an IAM user, you must generate IAM access keys (Access Key ID + Secret Access Key).
These keys allow the user to authenticate with AWS via the CLI.
You can download a CSV file with these keys for later use.





6) Configuring AWS CLI
Open PowerShell or terminal (with admin privileges).
Run the command:
aws configure
Enter:
Access Key ID
Secret Access Key
Default region (e.g., ap-south-1 for Mumbai region)
Default output format (e.g., json)
This saves your credentials in the CLI config files.





7) Testing Configuration
After configuration, run a CLI command (e.g., aws iam list-users or aws s3 ls) to make sure the CLI is working correctly with your IAM user.
If there’s an error, recheck the credentials and region settings.






8) Key Takeaways
IAM lets you securely manage AWS access without using the root account.
AWS CLI helps you execute AWS commands from the terminal after configuration.
Using IAM keys with CLI enables you to automate tasks and work in scripts.














